A key factor that promotes unity among Jehovah's people is the fact that we receive very clear
direction and regular reminders. Just think about what we receive each month from Jehovah's
Organization. Unfailingly, we receive a study edition of the Watchtower. We receive a public
edition of the Watchtower, or a Wake magazine. The Life and Ministry meeting workbook and
our long program on JW Broadcasting. Almost daily, we receive new articles, news, and legal
updates posted to JW.org. Are you having a challenge keeping it up with it all? How good
for that button on the homepage of JW.org that's entitled What's New? Like a gourmet,
course, meal, these regular provisions from Jehovah's Organization not only delight us,
but they keep us alive spiritually, energized to move on in our service to Jehovah.
What about those of us who are entrusted with responsibility, whether in the congregation or
here at Bethel? We are not lacking for clear direction and regular reminders. You might find it
interesting to learn that during the 2016 calendar year, headquarters prepared 80 letters of
direction that were sent to the brothers and the fields, such as elders and circuit overseers.
For the benefit of the branch committees in 90 branch offices, during that same time period,
the six governing body committees sent out 240 letters to help these brothers carry out their
work in a unified way. And of course, that's in addition to the thousands of letters that are sent
each month in reply to the individual questions that come from the branches. Such clear and timely
direction is a key factor that contributes to our unity as Jehovah's people. Before a few
minutes, let's discuss a second factor that strengthens our unity. Our commenters all touched on
this. It's our personal willingness to cooperate with theocratic direction.
In this regard, I invite you to open up your Bible to Hebrews 13 and verse 7.
Here we'd like to ask the question, what type of relationship does Jehovah want us to cultivate
with our overseers with the hardworking elders? Verse 7 in Hebrews chapter 13 says,
remember those who are taking the lead among you who have spoken the word of God to you,
and as you contemplate how their conduct turns out, imitate their faith.
Let's focus on the first action word. Remember, to remember means to keep in mind the good work
and elder does. Doing so will help us to cultivate warm feelings, feelings of love and appreciation
for the elders. A recent study edition of the Watchtower says that the word remember could also be
translated mention. So our heartfelt interest in the elders taking the lead moves us to mention
them in our prayers to Jehovah. Think about that relationship that God encourages us to cultivate
with our overseers. What a contrast that is to the rebellious contentious attitude that many in
the world have towards those in positions of authority. Notice in the same chapter, Hebrews chapter
13, what verse 17 adds? We're told, be obedient to those who are taking the lead among you and be
submissive for they are keeping watch over you as those who will render an account so that they may
do this with joy and not with sign for this would be damaging to you. Here we're admonished to
obey and be submissive. Of course, obedience is easier when we understand the direction given when
it suits our personal preference, but what if some theocratic direction we receive does not make
sense, takes us by surprise or doesn't suit us personally? In such cases, the latter part of
that verse comes into play where we're directed to be submissive. Why? As the verse highlights because
in the long run, yielding to theocratic direction is for our own good. Of course, this does not
make following direction easy, knowing that it's for our good. To illustrate the challenge we face,
you might imagine yourself trekking in the wilderness with the Israelites during that 40-year period.
Imagine that you and your family have been walking for some days and all of a sudden the pillar of
cloud stops. You stop. You look around. You're obedient to the direction, but you do ask yourself
how long will we be here? A day? A week? A few months? You ask yourself should we pack unpack all of
our belongings now? So at the beginning, you decide to unpack just a few things. Then a few days go
by. You get tired of hunting through all your belongings. So you decide to unpack everything.
Guess what happens next? The pillar of cloud starts lifting up and moving. Now it's time to start packing.
Is it easy to follow through on theocratic direction? Not always.
In this regard, notice how the Israelites responded to the movements of Jehovah through that cloud.
In Numbers 9, please turn your attention to verse 17 and then we'll read verse 22. Numbers 9 and verse 17 says,
Whenever the cloud lifted from the tent, the Israelites would promptly depart and in the place where
the cloud would remain, there is where the Israelites would encamp. Verse 22, whether it was two days,
a month or longer, as long as the cloud stayed over the tabernacle, the Israelites remained
encamped and would not depart. But when it lifted, they would depart. Are you working to cultivate a
similar spirit towards theocratic direction? The Bethel family sets an outstanding example in this
regard. When preparing these comments, I couldn't help but think of an overseer I worked closely with
at Brooklyn Bethel, who always carried in his pocket a pen and a notepad. As soon as someone asked
him to follow through on something, out came the pen and notepad and he was making a note. And in
many cases, before the day was over, he would have followed through on all those action items.
The principle of Luke 1610 was true of this brother. The person faithful in what is least is faithful also
in much. And as a result, it's obvious that Jehovah's organization has been able to entrust this
brother with many weighty responsibilities. Well, that brother is not unique. We have many
brothers and sisters in the worldwide brotherhood who demonstrate such an interest in following
through on theocratic direction. Recently, while visiting a branch office in Africa,
the overseer of the local design construction department told me that his department meets for
15 minutes, three times a week to read out loud a portion of the LDC department guidelines.
If you like mnemonics, that's the DC-50. Why does he feel that's necessary?
As he told me, he has found that a review with the entire department of the printed direction
helps the whole department to be sure they're on the same page that they understood the direction
clearly. The regular review has also brought to their attention points that they may have overlooked
when they first read the guidelines or that they now understand even better in the light of
changing circumstances. Again, another heartwarming example of willing cooperation and prompt follow
through. Well, what does this teach us today? Today, we are being provided with an abundance of clear
direction and timely reminders. Jehovah is leading us through the elders who are taking the lead
among us. His presence is as clear to us as it was to the Israelites who were following the pillar
of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night. So as we finish up the final leg of our wilderness
journey, may we all be resolved to cooperate fully with any theocratic direction we're given.